British prime minister Rishi sunak has
landed in Tel Aviv starting a two-day
visit to the Middle East Mr sunak is
expected to meet his Israeli
counterparts Benjamin Netanyahu and
Israeli president Isaac Herzog for what
he said on his arrival here he hoped
would be productive meetings this after
urging Regional leaders to avoid further
dangerous escalation we'll be speaking
in a bit to our chief International
correspondent Lee ducet about what Mr
sunak hopes to achieve here in Gaza
meanwhile Egypt has agreed to let
humanitarian supplies in via the Rafa
Crossing an initial Convoy of around 20
trucks of Aid are expected to enter Gaza
after a deal announced by President
Biden but none of this is likely to
happen until
Friday announcing the agreement the US
president warns that the aid convoys
would be stopped if any supplies were
confiscated by Hamas which governs Gaza
and is labeled a terrorist organization
by the UK and the
us we can bring you live pictures now of
Gaza it is around 10:00 now in the
morning there Israel's military says it
hit hundreds of sites in Gaza over the
last 24 hours including in the south of
the Gaza Strip in the last half hour it
says it's been targeting herass
infrastructure with the latest here's
our correspondent weira Davis
as trucks carrying Aid queue on the
Egyptian side of gaza's Southern border
the UN and international Aid agencies
have become increasingly alarmed at the
unfolding humanitarian crisis on a visit
to Israel that lasted barely a day while
reaffirming his steadfast support Joe
Biden also pressed the case for aid for
gaza's 2 and a half million Palestinian
citizens many of whom are struggling to
get access to food water and medical
supplies then on the plane home the
president told reporters that a deal had
been reached Egypt had agreed to let an
initial 20 trucks in through the Rafa
Crossing this has been a very
uh blunt negotiation I've had and uh so
we want to get as many of the trucks out
as possible there's I guess 150 or
something there not all of them will go
the first trch if there's a second trch
see how it goes the aid will be
delivered under un supervision with the
president saying it might not arrive
until Friday there was also a warning
that it will stop if any is taken by
Hamas which had been one of Israel's
main
concerns we've said and the Americans
have said there have to be safeguards in
place to make sure that Aid goes to the
people it's supposed to go to now Hamas
are the only people in Gaza with guns
and it's not like if they come to an oil
Taker and say come here there's much
that you can do about it but there have
to be Arrangements in place to make sure
that that doesn't happen both Israeli
and Palestinian officials are still
blaming each other for a huge explosion
at a Gaza hospital that killed almost
500 people President Biden had earlier
said he believed Israel's version of
events as the dead were buried the blame
game continued and tensions rise ahead
of what many assume is an inevitable
Israeli ground invasion of
Gaza and with almost 200 hostages held
by Hamas inside Gaza there are concerns
that direct Israeli action might
jeopardize their safety their families
will have taken some comfort after
President Biden said he'd also discussed
their plight saying he could not reveal
details but there was no higher priority
than that safe return there will be more
diplomatic visits in coming days
including rishy sunx today supporting
Israel's right to self-defense but also
urging restrain with civilian
populations when as expected Israeli
Ground Forces do go into Gaza W Davis
BBC News
Jerusalem from Gaza now we turn to
Israel's northern border with Lebanon
there have been further crossborder
exchanges of fire between Israeli forces
and hisb militants in southern Lebanon
the Israeli military said rockets and
anti-tank missiles had been fired into
to Israel from Southern Lebanon it said
it responded then with tank fire and a
drone strike Hezbollah is backed by Iran
it said two of its Fighters were killed
on Wednesday and another was wounded
these border skirmishes have raised
concerns in Israel that it could face a
two-front war we can cross live live now
to our correspondent Anna Foster who's
on the Israel Lebanon boundary Anna good
morning to you
how how does it feel where you where you
are at the moment because we talk about
crossborder skirmishes we're still
talking about uh exchanges of fire of
course between uh Israel's Mighty
military and Hezbollah which uh has a
huge Arsenal itself that militia in
southern Lebanon so the potential there
for escalation is huge and that's what
both sides are thinking at the moment
right
yeah you're absolutely right and that is
why there is so much concern when you
compare the the size of heesa the number
of Fighters it has the amount of
Firepower it has um to its allies Hamas
down in the south hezar is a huge threat
on this northern border and that is why
Israel have moved so many of their
troops so many armored vehicles and
tanks and you see them when you travel
along this border as I've been doing for
for several days now what you see is
empty communities you see towns and
Villages within 2 km of the Border that
have been evacuated almost completely
evacuated there are just soldiers there
now and some local security teams at you
see right along the roads where uh
Israel have have really done what they
can with their military to shore up this
border and it's also worth saying as
well you know it's interesting the point
you make that this is this is always a
tense place it has been for years but
while we're talking about what's going
on this in the South around Gaza we see
those constant rocket attacks from Hamas
and similarly we've seen the Israeli air
strikes it doesn't normally happen like
this on this border yes it's tense but
you don't normally see these constant
exchanges of fire you don't normally see
these these engagements like this and
this is a a really worrying upturn and I
think that's why you're seeing so much
International diplomacy focusing on this
border Joe Biden when he was uh he was
here yesterday the US president he said
very very clearly very explicitly in his
press conference to any uh hostile actor
or state that is planning to attack
Israel don't don't don't that's why they
put aircraft carriers in the Eastern
Mediterranean that's why the UK foreign
secretary James cleverly is coming in
parallel with that visit from the
British prime minister Rishi sunak but
he will go to Qatar turkey and Egypt and
and his mission is very clear as well it
is to try and stop this conflict
conflict spreading and becoming a a
regional
War absolutely anab as you say while
Israel has um emptied out places where
Israelis are living close to that border
with Lebanon it is moving more troops up
to that border to what extent do you
think we are in a situation where
Hezbollah feels it needs to be seen to
be doing something because of that tense
situation in Gaza those pictures seen
around the world of the suffering of
Palestinian civilians bringing uh people
out into the street in protest across
the Arab world including into Lebanon
and Israel feels it needs to to be seen
to be firing back and to what extent are
we really on the edge of a possible
escalation difficult to say with
certainty Anna of course but the sense
where you
[Applause]
are yeah it is it's a really key Point
Catcher And I think there are two two
things at play here one is these
constant exchanges of fire across the
border because they are to an extent
limited they tend not to to to focus on
on civilian infrastructure they tend to
focus on Military posts that they are
they describe it as sort of the the
agreed Rules of Engagement on the
northern border as it were the problem
will be if something goes wrong if there
are a large number of Civ civilian
casualties on one side or another a
misstep almost and and that could risk
inflaming tensions the other as you
rightly say is at what point does Iran
essentially because Hezbollah is backed
by Iran and Iran are the ones who really
will will make the decisions about what
Hezbollah does but but you're right to
say what could that trigger be now I
think the main thing that has been
discussed is this Israeli ground
operation into Gaza which we've been
talking about for for well over a week
now which hasn't happened yet but I
think a lot of people might see that as
the trigger point I think the explosion
at the hospital in Gaza again I know
there was a lot of concern the day
before yesterday when that happened
because people thought will that be the
inflammatory moment but the rhetoric
that we are hearing from Iran and and
what we're seeing you in terms of what
they're doing the Iranian foreign min
has been touring the region he's been in
Beirut talking to hezbollah's leadership
um they've been on social media saying
the time for political Solutions is
running out um that they cannot stand by
and and watch Palestinians in Gaza be
treated this way um and I think that is
why there is there is so much tension
that you know the I think the accepted
belief that that a big moment could
again be something that that that I say
forces I mean it doesn't Force but in in
their minds it would force Hezbollah
Force Iran to get involved in this
conflict and and that is what is causing
so much worry
here absolutely Anna we can't
overemphasize can we how much the sense
here uh and across the Middle East is
that we are in a very perilous situation
uh where escalation could be round the
corner and we will be looking at all the
Diplomatic efforts a bit later in our
program for now thank you very much Anna
Foster on the Israel Lebanon border and
we can now turn to uh the Israel Gaza
border um we can join Le ducet uh right
on the border there uh in southern
Israel Le we were just talking to you
Anna there about tensions in the north
of course in the south things remain
tense at this very heightened sense uh
ever since militants from the Gaza Strip
crossed over into Southern Israel uh
killing 1,400 people taking 200 hostages
into to Gaza where they remain now and
Israel's military saying they've
continued striking Gaza overnight into
this morning as
well yes Israel's uh there's been no let
up in Israel's military operations heavy
bombardment overnight people living in
Gaza have spoken of the non-stop
bombardment since the beginning of this
crisis living under the attacks night
and day there were reports this morning
uh that people living in
residential blocks were told to leave
and that those blocks were destroyed and
so more families are on the streets now
looking for shelter yesterday the United
Nations expressed concern that there was
still bombardment in the south of the
Gaza Strip which is where Israel had
ordered more than a million Palestinians
to flee flee from their homes in the
north for their safety and protection um
Israel said but they're coming under
bombardment too but I think this morning
Kya so many gin will be hoping against
hope that that news that President Joe
Biden has secured an agreement from
Israel and Egypt to get the first Convoy
of trucks some 20 trucks in all coming
through that Raffa Crossing bringing
some of that desperately needed Aid 20
trucks is not enough but at least it is
a beginning and that is what they'll be
hoping as they struggle to find shelter
water food and at this in these
hours um as you say the the the idea is
to let uh water uh food and medicines
into the Gaza Strip so needed as as the
UN does keep emphasizing Israel though
involved you know in in brokering that
agreement to allow in the a trucks says
fuel is not allowed into the strip the
concern says Israel is that fuel could
be diverted by Hamas inside Gaza how
needed is fuel it's needed sort of for
uh pumping water right and water to
salination as
well yes it was striking that when the
United Nations the spokesperson for the
un's relief and works agency unra which
is the main agency helping Palestinians
um in in other pal in the other
Palestinian territory in the occupied
West Bank but also in the Gaza Strip
when they listed the Urgent needs uh
life-saving needs of the people of Gaza
uh she emphasized that it was fuel that
was Des really needed yes to pump the
water our our viewers may remember that
some days ago uh during a phone call
between prime minister Netanyahu and
President Joe Biden who was then in
Washington it was announced that there
was an agreement that water could go
into the southern uh Gaza Strip but then
the next day we were told by the United
Nations that the pumps only worked for 3
hours which not enough for the more than
a million gazin desperate uh water in
the of of the Gaza Strip and of course
you do need as you mentioned electricity
to be able to to to pump the water
supplies and that's needed in the north
of Gaza too so many families uh couldn't
leave wouldn't leave and there's
hospitals in the north as well so much
is needed and so much is needed
now um Lee finally how does this work
practically a much needed Aid if it
starts coming in the US said not to
expect those Aid convoys uh to start
entering the Gaza Strip till um earliest
tomorrow Friday and is then brought to
people uh inside Gaza what about their
safety though because Israel is
continuing its air strikes of course
there's renewed talk about a possible
ground offensive Israel is still saying
it wants to destroy Hamas in the Gaza
Strip so how to separate the civilians H
and keep them safe while these military
activities
continue
given what has happened so far what
we've heard from the Egyptians so far it
seems clear Egypt won't open the Rafa
Crossing unless it has guarantees that
Israel will not bomb it the rougher
crossing the only way in and out of the
Gaza Strip um has been bombed at least
four times since this crisis erupted
Egypt has said it needs to keep its
staff Manning that passage safe earlier
air strikes by Israel destroyed some of
the buildings so today they're going to
begin the work first of all in this
extraordinary moment there's the very
ordinary details of road safety
President Biden said there are potholes
in the access roads so his team is on
the ground they're working with some
repair teams they're going to try to fix
the roads so that's the first element of
safety making it sure the trucks can
safely reach the crossing then there is
the issue of being absolutely sure
there's an iron CL clad guarantee that
that first Convoy we understand 20
trucks won't come under Israeli fire one
once it enters Gaza uh we haven't got
all the details but we would expect that
Palestinian Health officials civil
servants the United Nations other Aid
agencies will quickly become involved in
trying to distribute that Aid because as
we've been reporting Israel has made it
absolutely clear as did Joe Biden if any
of that Aid is diverted by Hamas it will
stop but as you know K it must be very
difficult to distinguish who is Hamas
and who is not everyone has been uh
seeking shelter but certainly it doesn't
want it to go to the the military Wing
isin Al kassam um and we should also
emphasize that Israel has said that it
will allow Aid only through that
Crossing that no Aid will enter from
Israel until all of the captives nearly
200 captives Israeli non-israeli 30
nationalities were told come home
free Le duet on the Israel Gaza border
thank you very much indeed that was our
special International corres respondent
Lee duet talking about the conundrum of
how to get much needed Aid into Gaza